Introducing user experience design

The basics of user experience design

  Easier to understand and more enjoyable to use
  User experience:
    How a person, the user feels about interacting with, or experiencing, a product
    To have a good experience:
      - Usable
          Making something easier to use, the structure of the product are clear to everyone
      - Equitable
          Aviable to everyone

          Good UX design is equitable. This dating app gives users the option to specify personal pronouns. This option ensures users can accurately 
          represent themselves.
      - Enjoyable
          We have to collct evidence on how they're experiencing that prodcut in real time.
      - Useful
          Solve our problems
  Product:
    A good, service, or feature
  
  Jobs in the field of UX

    Interaction designers
      Interaction designers focus on designing the experience of a product and how it functions. They strive to understand the user flow, or the path, 
      that a typical user takes to complete a task on an app, website, or other platform. At Google and many other companies, interaction designers are 
      a specialized type of UX designer. 

      An interaction designer's work answers questions like: What should happen if a user taps on this button? How do we make this action easier for 
      users to complete? And, how are the design elements within the website laid out? Interaction designers focus less on how the product looks and 
      instead strive to make the product easy to navigate and simple for users to interact with.
    Visual designers
      Visual designers focus on how a product or technology looks. They are often responsible for designing logos, illustrations, and icons, as well 
      as deciding on font color, size, and placement. Visual designers focus on the layout of each page or screen and make all of the design elements 
      fit together in a visually appealing way. At Google and many other companies, visual designers are a specialized type of UX designer. 

      The role of a visual designer is to answer questions like: What kind of visual style should icons have, in order to fit the product's branding? 
      Or, which color and font should we use for this button? The goal of a visual designer is to delight users with designs that inspire, engage, and 
      excite them.
    Motion designers
      Motion designers think about what it feels like for a user to move through a product and how to create smooth transitions between pages on an 
      app or website. They may also create animations or visual effects to bring their design ideas to life. At Google and many other companies, 
      motion designers are a specialized type of UX designer. 

      A motion designer’s work answers questions like: How should an app transition between pages? How do we show the connection between these actions?       And, what’s an engaging animation that will help tell our story? Motion designers focus on design elements that move, rather than traditional 
      static designs.
    VR/AR designer
      Virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) designers create products that provide users with immersive experiences, unbounded by the limits 
      of the physical world. Virtual reality involves a wearable headset that takes over a user’s vision; it blocks out their physical surroundings 
      and immerses them in a completely virtual world. For example, VR can feel like you're entering the setting of a magical imaginary land. 

      On the other hand, augmented reality uses the physical world as a backdrop and adds virtual elements on top of it. Users are still contextually 
      aware of their surroundings, but their reality is augmented, or enhanced, by adding elements through a screen. For example, you can sit in your 
      actual kitchen, and an AR experience can add digital images, like a new barstool or a piece of artwork, to the room around you.

      A VR or AR designer’s work answers questions like: How do we create a user experience that leverages 3D space? Or, will this action cause a user 
      motion sickness? To ensure users are comfortable immersing in a VR or AR experience, designers need to carefully consider everything from sound 
      to lighting. 
    Graphic designers
    UX researchers
      UX researchers conduct studies or interviews that examine how people use a product. UX researchers often identify pain points that users are 
      experiencing and explore how products can help solve those problems. They also explore the usability of existing products, by asking users to 
      complete tasks in an app or website, for example. 

      UX researchers answer questions like: What problems are users facing? Is the design of this product easy to use? And, would people be interested 
      in this new design feature? The goal of UX researchers is often to understand how a product can provide a solution to a real problem users are 
      having.
    UX writers
      UX writers think about how to make the language within a product clearer so that the user experience is more intuitive. UX writers also help 
      define a brand’s voice and personality. The work of UX writers often includes writing labels for buttons and determining the tone of language 
      used within an app or website.

      UX writers focus on answering questions like: What words should be used to communicate this idea clearly? Should the tone for this app be 
      friendly or technical? And, what should the language on this button label say? UX writers often become subject matter experts in order to 
      present content that’s easy to understand for all users. 
    Production designers
    UX engineers
      UX engineers translate the design’s intent into a functioning experience, like an app or a website. They help UX teams figure out if designs are 
      intuitive and technically feasible.

      UX engineers answer questions like: How do we implement each interaction? How do we build this design in a way that stays true to its original 
      intent? And, how might we explore alternatives to determine the best user experience? UX engineers synthesize design and development, bringing 
      product concepts to life. 
    UX program managers
      UX program managers ensure clear and timely communication, so that the process of building a useful product moves smoothly from start to finish. 
      This might include setting goals, writing project plans, and allocating team resources.

      UX program managers answer questions like: What are the overall goals for this project, and what’s the plan to achieve them? And, how can we 
      create and improve processes within the team? UX program managers work across departments to make sure that UX is involved throughout a project 
      lifecycle.
    Conversation designer
      Conversational interfaces are everywhere, from intelligent virtual assistants like Google Assistant and Siri, to interactive voice response 
      systems like customer service systems you can talk to. Conversational interfaces even include automobile navigation systems and chatbots! 
      Conversation design incorporates natural, real-world conversational behaviors into the interactions between users and these systems. 

      Conversation designers make it possible for users to have natural conversations to get things done. They leverage user research, psychology, 
      technical knowledge, and linguistics to create user experiences that are intuitive and engaging. Conversation designers develop the “persona” 
      or personality of the voice, as well as the flow and dialog of the interaction. 

      Conversation designers answer questions like: What’s the ideal language and flow based on who users are, the task to be accomplished, and the 
      context of the conversation? Does the personality of the virtual assistant seem genuine, engaging, and reflective of the brand values? How 
      does the conversation work with on-screen elements? Does the virtual assistant offer a consistent, usable, and useful experience end-to-end? 


The product development life cycle
  
  From idea to reality.

  - Bainstorm
  - Define
  - Design
  - Test
    Running these tests is typically the responsibility of the UX researcher on your team, if you have one. 

    First, the team tests the product internally to look for technical glitches and usability problems. This is often referred to as alpha testing. 

    Then, the product undergoes a test with stakeholders to make sure the product is aligned with the company’s vision, meets legal guidelines for 
    accessibility, and follows government regulations for privacy, for example. 

    Finally, there’s an external test with potential users. This is the time to figure out whether the product provides a good user experience, 
    meaning it’s usable, equitable, enjoyable, and useful. This is often referred to as beta testing.

    Gathering and implementing feedback at this stage is absolutely critical. If users are frustrated or confused by your product, UX designers make 
    adjustments or even create new versions of the design. Then, the designs are tested again, until there’s little or no friction between the product 
    and the user.
    
    It’s important to call out that the product development life cycle isn’t a completely linear process. Your team might cycle between designing and 
    testing a few times before you're ready to launch the product!
  - Launch

Design for a good UX

Job responsibilities of entry-level UX designers

   - Researching
       User research is about understanding the people who use your product. Through research, you’ll learn about users’ backgrounds, demographics, 
       motivations, pain points, emotions, and goals. Your research methods might include surveys, observations, and interviews. We’ll explore user 
       research in much more detail in an upcoming course. 
   - Wireframing
   - Prototyping
   - Creating information architecture
   - Communicationg effectively

Pursue a career in UX design
  From certificate to career success
    - Internship
    - Apprentinceships
    -  Freelancers
    - Entry-level job
